---
layout: post
title: My Experience At Bloc
thumbnail-path: "img/bloc-logo.jpg"
---
Throughout my academic career, I had primarily studied science related course work. Even while I was transferring to a four year university, I had chosen Biochemistry as my major to pursue for the next two years. In fact, I graduated from UC Davis in the Spring of 2017 as a Biochemistry major. The prospect of pursuing a career in software development never really crossed my mind until I decided to forgo my dreams of becoming a doctor. I had taken core courses in computer science such as C, C++, and Rust while at UC Davis. However, I knew that if I wanted to pursue a career in software development, I was still unprepared.

Nearing graduation, and unwilling to spend additional time at UC Davis, I had to find another alternative that would prepare myself for a career in software development. Through the recommendation of a friend, I began the search for the appropriate bootcamp that would teach, challenge, and prepare me for the real world. I was drawn to Bloc for its simplistic approach to teaching its students and providing help when needed. After all, we need to be able to solve problems on our own without always getting help. One of the instrumental aspects of the program was to select a mentor that would guide me through my journey to becoming a developer. After viewing multiple mentor profiles, I was able to select the one that matched well with my needs and schedule. My mentor has been instrumental in helping me find solutions to problems that I had spent countless hours on and providing insight about the technology industry.

Bloc's curriculum is set up in a way that you must pass "checkpoints" before moving onto the next assignment. Each checkpoint is a stepping stone to the next, meaning you must have a full understanding of the concepts taught in this checkpoint before being able to do well in the next. As you move along the checkpoints, it tends to get harder and longer. However, this is nothing to be scared about because you have at your disposal, other students, the internet, and your mentor to guide you through. So far, I have built two applications: a digital music player and a chat application. The first version of Bloc Jams (digital music player) was built with a lot of hand holding because it was our first exposure to creating an application. However, we were challenged to translate the first version of Bloc Jams into an Angular version. I was extremely proud after seeing my Angular Bloc Jams product as this was the first time I had built an application.

My next project was creating a chat application from scratch called Bloc Chat. With this project, I had full control of the styling and feel of the application. This was also my first time incorporating a database called Firebase, which allowed users to send and receive messages in real-time. In this project, I had my first exposure to using methods within AngularFire that supported my Message factory.

### Conclusion

So far, my four months with Bloc have been well spent! I have learned more at Bloc than I have ever learned in a classroom. I have been able to create functioning apps that I feel excited and proud each time it's done. I am learning the necessary skills that will prepare me for a job in web development. My mentor Zach has been a big help in my journey by challenging, teaching, and motivating me. I look forward to what Bloc has to offer as I continue on with my course.   
